Welcome back.
Let's try and implement a look up function or the search function.
We want to check if an item or a node exists in our tree.
Let's see how we go about this.
The first thing I would want to do is to check if there is such a thing as a root node.
If it's empty.
So I'm using I could have done this got.
Equals equals equals no.
To check if the route is empty or I can use the exclamation mark in Javascript.
And we'll just say return false because if the root doesn't exist then it doesn't really matter.
We're not going to find that note.
Otherwise we're going to say once again let current note equal to this dot root very similar to what
we did above.
Remember we here and you'll notice some similarities with what we did when we did the answer.
We still need to traverse through our tree but instead our while loop is going to stop whenever the
current node no longer exists or we no longer have a node to go through because once we've gone through
our binary search tree and it's null that means we didn't find what we're looking for.
So in this case I'm simply going to say if the value that we're looking for is less than the current
node value
in that case the current node is going to equal current.
Note the dot left because we now want to go left if the value is less than the current node value.
That means it's not the same it's not the no we're looking for.
So go left because that's where I can find something that might be less than the current note otherwise.
And will you use an ELSE IF statement here which says another condition.
So if that doesn't match if the current If the value is greater than the current node Daut value what
do you think we do here.
Well we go to the right.
So we're going to say Curren node is now going to be current node Daut right.
So we just keep checking to the right of us and then finally.
Else if that is another condition and we can't say if current node is value equals the actual value
that we're looking for.
That means we got a match.
That means that node exists.
So we're just going to return the current note.
Nice and simple.
And then finally because we're not returning anything we'll just looping through the while loop until
we find the current node where we return the current node or Kerno becomes null because we can't find
anything if we don't find anything.
Just return false.
The only way we return something other than false is when we find our note with the matching value.
So let's see this.
If I now run tree dot look up 9 and I'm going to comment this out because we don't need to check that
our tree is being made.
If I run there you go.
I get the 9 node that has reference to all the other nodes beneath it.
If I look up 90 I'll get false because it doesn't exist.
What about 20 which exists Yep we found 20.
What about 170 Yeah we found 170.
It's a node but has no left and right references because it's a leafnode and then finally 171 is false
because it doesn't exist Walden.
Getting this far.
Hope you're able to implement your own binary search tree.
Once you get the hang of it it's really not that bad.
At the end of the day each line should make sense and traversing a tree should make sense to you by
now.
We also understand why we have big-O of log and although we have loops here like while loops we're not
actually iterating through every single node we're only iterating using.
Divide and conquer something that you'll hear a lot of.
Divide and conquer simply means we're dividing up so that we don't visit all the notes.
Each node that we visit we make a decision to go left or right.
I'll see in the next one.
Bobby.